Most of the time, if not all of the time, we communicate with each other using
language without considering the complex activity we are undertaking, forming
complex words and sentences in a split second. We know immediately when
someone uses language structures that are inappropriate or incorrect because we
have learned the rules that govern the language(s) we use. In this book, we will
look at the structures we use in more detail, in order to help us to understand the
structures we find in languages that may be arranged in ways quite different from
English.
There are many approaches to the study of language. Some linguists are more
interested in discovering the basic, innate structures that we all have in our brains,
regardless of which language(s) we speak. Linguists working in what is known
as the generative tradition seek to understand universal grammar, the
structures that human languages have in common and that we may be born with the
capacity to use. The generative approach focuses on the formal characteristics
of language structure, seeking to uncover the rules that ‘generate’ well-formed
sentences. Other linguists take a more functional approach, studying language
use in context; in other words, what actually comes out of our mouths rather than
what may be stored in our heads. Functional approaches seek to incorporate the
meaning and broader context of language in order to fully understand language
structure.
In this book I present a practical, functional approach to describing and explaining language structure. In chapter 2, I present a step-by-step approach to analysing
the structure of words: the study of morphology. Chapters 3 to 8 draw specifically on Role and Reference Grammar theory (RRG) to help us understand the
structure of sentences by looking at form (syntax), meaning (semantics) and
function (pragmatics) (Van Valin and LaPolla 1997, Van Valin 2005). As well as
being a functional theory interested in language as a means of communication,
RRG theory seeks to be typologically adequate, to present a level playing field
for the analysis of all languages. This book does not cover every aspect of RRG
theory; for that, the reader is directed to the references. Rather, this book is an 